# Palestinian COVID-19

The novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19), has spread to many countries. Given the fragile health systems in most countries, and especially in war zones, we studied the data available in Palestine as well as their possible evolution. 
We address the following fundamental issues concerning this epidemic: How will the epidemic evolve in Palestine concerning the number of reported cases and unreported cases? How will the number of unreported cases influence the severity of the epidemic? Most of the Palestinian territories live under a blockade and apartheid. What is the effect of these oppressive policies on the epidemic? To answer these questions, we developed mathematical models that recover from data of reported cases and the number of unreported cases for the COVID-19 epidemic in Palestine. 

We use a set of reported data to model the epidemic in Palestine: data is shared by the Palestinian Ministry of Health. It represents the epidemic transmission in Palestine. The first case was detected on March 5, 2020. Four deaths are reported on 22 April 2020 with more than 466 total number of infected cases. The three phases of COVID-19 epidemics can be decomposed as a linear phase, an exponential growth, and a decreasing stage. The linear growth in the number of reported cases (from 5 March to 31 March) is
where the number of daily reported cases is almost constant day after day. The second phase of the epidemic corresponds to an exponential increasing phase, it starts on April 1st, 2020. The third phase of the epidemic corresponds to a time-dependent exponentially decreasing transmission rate, due to major public interventions and social distancing measure. Our analysis identifies the epidemics in Palestine as in the exponential phase. The main objective of this study is the estimation of the average number of infections one case can generate throughout the infectious period. It is the basic reproduction number of an infectious agent. We presents the data set and an estimation of an actual number of infected cases in Palestine based on the 18-day effect from infection to death.

Data information includes the cumulative number of reported cases. We introduces two deterministic compartmental model based on the clinical progression of the disease and the epidemiological status of the individuals. The SEIR model studies the disease transmission. Four compartments are present: Susceptible, Exposed, Infectious, and Recovered. The cumulative number of reported symptomatic infectious cases at time t, denoted by CR(t) is computed. We then construct numerical simulations and compare them with data.
